(excited pop music)
All right, we're going to talk
about attributes now.
So when you're working with html elements,
you have these things called attributes.
Attributes are anything that is provided to an element
as additional info.
So things like classes, source.
One attribute we were clearly missing here
is an alt attribute.
So attributes work exactly the same way
as all of the different properties
that we've been working with.
So I'm gonna show you how to do that real quick
and then I'm gonna go into custom attributes
and data attributes.
So let's go.
Well, do we have this image here?
Yeah, we have it as a pic.
So I'll say pic dot alt is equal to,
and I'm obviously using a image placeholder service here.
So these are changing but a good alt
would describe the image.
So we would say, 'cute pup'.
By the way, this is kind of an aside
but whenever you're doing alt attributes on an image,
you don't have to say like 'photo of a cute pup'
because the people that are using screen readers know
it's a photo because the screen reader will tell them
and so you just say, 'cute pup'.
Don't need to say 'image of' or 'photo of'.
Now if I refresh this, please stay cute pup.
(sigh) Sky.
All right, well you see that the alt
is then showing up there, right?
Even though we hadn't authored it here,
you can access all of the different attributes
that are on it.
So, other things you could say, I don't know,
pic dot width is equal to 200.
See now it's just showing up as 200.
You can put a title on it, you can put a,
oh, you can also, most of them are both getters and setters.
Meaning that, I could console that log, the pic dot alt.
That's a getter.
And this is a setter.
And you'll see that we get the text of someone's weird feet.
Neat.
You see we've got the actual text
so you can pull it.
Some of the other stuff are only getters.
So if we were to console log the pic dot natural width
it will then tell us, oh that's an interesting one.
Look at this.
Zero.
If I were to now run that from my console
it tells us it's 600.
Why is it zero when I console log it here
but when I run it in the terminal it's 600?
So that is actually a problem that you frequently run into
and that is because you have to often wait
for the image to actually be downloaded before we know
how large it is.
So this was a big problem when everybody
was building slideshows 'cause you tried to resize the image
but you had to wait for the image to be downloaded entirely
before you knew how big it was.
So the natural which will just tell us the width
of the actual pixels.
So how do you solve that?
Well, we're going to be getting into event listeners
but I can just show you real quick.
We can just say 'window.addEventListener'
and I think it's the loaded?
Yeah, those are loaded events.
Load or loaded?
Let's try load.
And what that will do is it will wait for all of the images
on the page and all of the resources, all of the CSS,
all of the JavaScript, all of that has to be downloaded
before this will fire.
So we can run a function here
and then if we were to put that natural width
let's duplicate it so we can see it in both.
Can you see how that takes a split second to show up?
If I put an even larger image, maybe I'll make it 6000.
Oh.
You can't do photos that big.
Maybe if we do 500.
It takes a split second before it actually shows up.
You can also use this Event Listener on images.
So you could just take our pic and wait for
that specific one to load.
That's probably a better use case
'cause you just care about this one.
Can you see that that will work as well?
So we're getting a little ahead of ourselves
with add Event Listeners but it's good to know
that those are some of the gotchas
that JavaScript will get you.
And you might be saying, "But Wes, we put the JavaScript
"at the bottom.
"Doesn't that mean that it waits
"for everything to be loaded?"
And yes, this waits for the html to be loaded on the page
but if the html then goes ahead
and has to make additional requests like downloading images,
it doesn't wait for those.
So if that's the case then you have to listen
for the load event either on the window
or on each individual pics.
So natural width, we were talking
about how this is only a getter, right?
If we were trying to set the natural width of an image,
I don't know if it will error at us or anything.
Let's see.
No, no sort of error but it doesn't do anything.
Why?
Because that's not something that you can change.
That is the actual image of the size.
So if you did want to change the width of it,
you'd have to pop a width attribute on it
and then that will actually change it.
So those are getters and setters.
All of the attributes that you can think of
on any type of element are all done via getters and setters
and you just use the dot notation.
You may have run into these get attributes, set attribute
and has attribute methods.
So if we take this pic and we were to run dot get attribute
and we were to get the, let's get the alt.
And let's just console that log,
well what is returned from that?
That works, right?
And we can also use dot set attribute
alt and we wanna set it to
'REALLY CUTE PUP'
and that works as well
and then there's also has attribute
which is return true or false if it's been set or not.
So what's the different between this method, set attribute,
and then just using this dot notation
where you're just setting and getting a property
on the picture object?
And the answer to that is that set attribute
will also work for things that are nonstandard.
So we have html as a spec and you have all
of your standard attributes like alt and title
and width and height and source
and all of those good things.
But if you for some reason wanna set an attribute
that is nonstandard, which you shouldn't do,
I'll talk about that in a second,
you can use set attribute to make something.
Wes is cool.
And now if we inspect that element up here,
you see we get this 'Wes is cool' attribute on it.
Now, you shouldn't just go willy nilly making up
your own attributes because what if the html spec wants
to introduce a 'Wes is cool' attribute in the future
and now all of a sudden you have this legacy code
that is clashing with the actual standard
and that's what leads to bugs.
That's what's happened in the past a lot of times.
That's why we have JavaScript dot includes
instead of dot contains on a raise.
Because there previously was another library
that used includes and they took it
and they over, and then when the browser tried
to use includes they overwrote each other
and their functionality wasn't exactly the same
and that was a bit of a pain.
So don't ever just make
your own attributes straight away like this.
If you do want to use your own custom attributes,
I'm gonna comment that out 'cause honestly,
very rarely do I ever have to use set and get attribute.
Because if you do want your own custom attributes,
you use what are called data attributes.
Now, data attributes are things like,
let's get a couple images here
which say data dash name is equal to Wes
and maybe on this one data dash name is equal to Kate
and data dash name is equal to lux.
Oh, I messed up my quotes there.
Eh, I'll get rid of this one.
So I just wanted to attach a piece of metadata
to each of these images.
And if you wanna attach metadata or some sort of data
to an element that does not have any sort
of standard attribute like a name attribute
then what you can use is you can just use data dash
and then you make it up.
You can use anything you want.
You could do data dash dog, data dash description,
data dash name and that will allow you
to attach metadata to the image.
Now, if we refresh this and inspect each of these
you see they have data on them
and then I can go into this,
let's put a class on one of them.
Let's just say class is equal to custom.
Then I will grab it.
Const custom
is equal to document dot query selector dot custom.
Now if we console log custom
and if we wanna access the data attributes
on that custom image, you might think we do dot data
and it gives us undefined.
If you wanna be able to access those data attributes on it,
you call the dot data set and it's all one word,
not camel case or anything like that
and what data set will give is an object
that's full of all the property values that you have.
So data dash name is just name is equal to Wes
and if I had multiple data properties on there,
data dash last is equal to bos,
then what we have is an object with each
of those properties on it.
And why would that ever be useful?
Well we can do things like listen for a click.
So we can say custom dot add event listener,
we'll listen for a click, and when somebody clicks
on that again, I know we haven't learned this yet
but we're going ahead of ourselves a little bit,
we can do something like alert welcome,
we'll take the custom dot data set dot first.
Oh no, it was name.
And then dot last.
And now if I click on this, it says, "Welcome wes bos".
I could attach this event listener to the other two as well
and then make this pretty dynamic.
We'll be using that a lot.
I love using data attributes when you're just coding
some vanilla JavaScript up on there.
So again, any time you need a custom attribute,
anytime you need to associate some sort of information,
some sort of text, I've even seen people use this
for data dash large.
You have a little thumbnail and then when you click
on that image it shows a larger version.
Maybe you can give it a secondary path to a larger version
of that image.
So we'll do lots of examples like that in the coming videos
and that is attributes in JavaScript.
Let's go into learning how to create some html.